# DivKC: A Divide-and-Conquer Approach to Knowledge Compilation

This repository contains the programs and data associated with
the article 'DivKC: A Divide-and-Conquer Approach to Knowledge Compilation'.

# Contents

- The `cppddnnf` folder contains the implementation of the algorithms presented
in the paper that operate on the compiled form. The implemented algorithms
allow for approximate model counting and random sampling.

  The folder `D4` contains a slightly modified version of the D4 compiler.
  The modification is only present to also include the unconstrained
  variables in the generated .nnf file therefore simplifying further
  usage of the d-DNNF.

- The current implementation in `cppddnnf` requires this modification to function.
Therefore, to replace `D4` by a different compiler, either the compiler
or the implementation in `cppddnnf` has to be modified.

- The `projection` folder contains the code necessary to project a CNF
formula on a subset of its variables.

- The `results` folder contains the raw results that are presented in the article as well
as more detailed versions of the tables available in the article.

- The `splitter` folder contains the implementation of the splitting procedure
presented in the paper.

# Usage

To use our approach, the `cppddnnf`, `splitter`, `projection`, and `D4` projects will need to be compiled
by following the instructions in the respective folders.

## Dependencies

The dependencies on Debian-based systems can be installed as follows:
```
apt install g++ make zlib1g-dev libboost-dev libgmp-dev libgmpxx4ldbl \
    ninja-build libboost-program-options-dev libboost-random-dev
```

## Building

These commands should build the individual projects. Detailed instructions are
given in each subdirectory.

```
cd cppddnnf
g++ gen.cpp -o gen
./gen
ninja clean
ninja
cd ..

cd splitter
g++ gen.cpp -o gen
./gen
ninja clean
ninja
cd ..

cd projection
g++ gen.cpp -o gen
./gen
ninja clean
ninja
cd ..

cd D4/d4
make clean
make -j
cd ../..
```

Given that compilation can require large amounts of memory, an apptainer script
is proposed in the `D4` directory. The container will limit `D4` to 16 GB of memory and
one hour of computation.

```
apptainer build --fakeroot d4.sif d4.def
```

The resulting container (`d4.sif`) can be used just like the native executable.
Instructions on how to install `apptainer` are available on [apptainer.org](https://apptainer.org/).

## Basic components of DivKC

- The folder `splitter` contains the used splitting heuristic.
  A singularity script is also provided in the folder.

- The folder `projection` contains the program used for CNF projection.
  A singularity script is also provided in the folder.

- The folder `cppddnnf` contains the C++ utilities necessary to work with our compiled form.

## Example Usage

### Compiling a Formula

First, we need to compute a projection set for the formula `t.cnf` by using the `splitter`.
```
./splitter/build/splitter --cnf t.cnf --nb 4 > t.cnf.log
cat t.cnf.log t.cnf > t.cnf.proj
```

We then project the formula by using the `projection` tool
which generates the CNF representation of the projected formula and the upper bound
as described in the paper:
```
./projection/build/projection --cnf t.cnf.proj
```

We then use `D4` to compile the projected formula and the upper bound to d-DNNF.
```
./D4/d4/d4 -dDNNF "t.cnf.proj.p" -out="t.cnf.pnnf"
./D4/d4/d4 -dDNNF "t.cnf.proj.pup" -out="t.cnf.unnf"

appmc "t.cnf" 1000 0.01
```

We now have a d-DNNF representation as described in the paper.
Note that the files generated during this entire process are somewhat important.
The approximate counting and sampling executables expect as input the path to the
original CNF formula `t.cnf` and as a consequence they expect to find
`t.cnf.proj.log` as generated by `projection` and the formulae
`t.cnf.pnnf` and `t.cnf.unnf` as generated above.
The remaining files were useful during the process but are no longer used
afterwards and can be deleted.

For your convenience, a script called `compile_formula.sh` is provided to perform the above
calls and remove the unused files (however, the script uses the default parameters).
Usage:
```
bash compile_formula.sh t.cnf
```

### Approximate Model Counting

Once the formula has been compiled, you can perform approximate model counting as follows:
```
./cppddnnf/build/appmc --cnf t.cnf
```

This will output the estimates in CSV format with the header: `N,Y,Yl,Yh`
, where `N` is the number of solutions used, `Y` is the estimate and `Yl` and `Yh` are
the estimated lower and upper bounds computed with the central limit theorem.

### Approximate Uniform Random Sampling

Once the formula has been compiled, you can perform approximate model counting as follows:
```
./cppddnnf/build/sampler --cnf t.cnf --k 50 --nb 10
```
This will use a buffer size of `50` and generate `10` samples.

The program will start by printing either
`c true uniformity` or `c heuristic based uniformity` to show if the algorithm
used is exact or heuristic based. This depends on the formula and on the buffer size.

The algorithm will then print the solutions.
Each solution is a list of signed integers representing the literals and separated
by spaces. Each solution is terminated by `0`.

`./cppddnnf/build/rsampler` can be used instead of `./cppddnnf/build/sampler`.
More details can be found in `cppddnnf/README.md`.

## Docker

A Dockerfile is also provided.
The image can be build with
```
docker build -t divkc .
```

The executable files are then available in `/divkc` on the container.
To compile a formula `t.cnf` by using the docker container you can either use the provided
`docker_compile_formula.sh` bash script or you can run the individual commands
manually to retain more control over the program options.

The `docker_compile_formula.sh` script is used as follows:
```
bash docker_compile_formula.sh t.cnf
```

A prebuilt image is available on [Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18097437).
The image can be loaded with
```
docker load -i divkc_docker_image.tar.gz
```

The individual commands to run are as follows:
```
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/splitter --cnf "t.cnf" > "t.cnf.log"

cat "t.cnf.log" "t.cnf" > "t.cnf.proj"

docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/projection --cnf "t.cnf.proj"

docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/wrap 16000 3600 \
    /divkc/d4 -dDNNF "t.cnf.proj.p" -out="t.cnf.pnnf"

docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/wrap 16000 3600 \
    /divkc/d4 -dDNNF "t.cnf.proj.pup" -out="t.cnf.unnf"
```

In this example we use `/divkc/wrap` to limit `D4`.
With the parameters in the example, `wrap` will kill the call to `D4` if it
exceeds `16000` MB of memory or if the execution takes longer than `3600` seconds.
Moreover, the `wrap` command prints a summary of the used resources on exit.
The summary is printed in CSV format with the following columns:
the used command, the exit status (`done`, `err`, `mem`, `mem err`, `timeout` or `timeout err`),
the used memory in KB, the execution time in seconds.

Once the compilation has been done, we can perform approximate model counting as follows:
```
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/appmc --cnf t.cnf
```

Similarily, we can perform random sampling with `/divkc/sampler`:
```
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/sampler --cnf t.cnf --nb 10 --k 50
```

Alternatively with `/divkc/rsampler`:
```
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd):/work:Z" -w "/work" divkc \
    /divkc/rsampler --cnf t.cnf --nb 10 --k 50000
```
